Dear Sir,



I am Apurva Singhal, a Second year B.Tech student in the Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, enrolled in the course of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering at Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee (IIT Roorkee), considered to be one of the best technical institutes in the world.

I have always believed that academic knowledge flourishes only when it's applied.

I have gone through your article {{Article}}} published in {{Journal}} and I am very keen to do some work in this field under your able guidance. It spoke high of your knowledge and experience, and insisted that the opportunities available in your department will further enhance my knowledge in my fields of study.

Therefore, I am keen in pursuing summer internship (May to Mid-July-2015) at your university under your able guidance. The research project that I am willing do under you might form the basis of my degree project of one year duration and hence I will gain doubly from the experience.

Studying at a competitive institute like IIT Roorkee, I have developed a strong technical base and also a passion for research in my fields of study. Further the project oriented labs have given me the opportunity to develop my skills to work in a team and instilled in me excellent analytical troubleshooting and problem-solving skills.

 Hence sir, I request you to consider me for an internship under your expert guidance for a suitable available project in the above fields. My university vacations will be from around first week of May till 15th of July, 2015 and I would be more than willing to pursue a project under you during this period of time. I hope that you would take a decision in favor of a hard working person who has faith in his abilities.

My curriculum vitae and references are enclosed.

Thank you for your kind consideration.



With warm regards

Yours Sincerely, 

Apurva Singhal 
IIT Roorkee
Roorkee, UP
India









------------------------------Resume------------------------------







OBJECTIVE

To work as a summer internship where I can put to use the skills I have learnt in my academic career, get exposure in the field of Metallurgy and Materials Science so that I can put that knowledge to use in solving practical technological challenges as well







Academic Performance



Year

School/ College

Performance

2013-14

IIT Roorkee(II Year)

B.Tech- Metallurgical and Materials Engineering

6.82

2012

DAV Public School, Kota

CBSE - XII

88.2%

2010

Sophia Senior Secondary School, Kota

CBSE - X

CGPA=9.8























ACADEMIC PROJECTS/LABORATORY

Analyzed the microstructure of various alloys like Iron-Carbon, lead-tin, copper-zinc, and various cast iron such as white cast iron and grey cast iron under Electron Microscope in the guidance of Prof. B. Venkata Manoj Kumar, Dept. of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, IIT Roorkee.
Hands on experience on the application of various principles and features of Scanning Electron Microscope and also its scanning process and image formation under Prof. B. Venkata Manoj Kumar, Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, IIT Roorkee.
Analyzed the phase diagram of lead-tin system by direct T cooling curve and studied  diffusion coefficient and activation energy of carbon diffusion in low carbon steel during carburizing under the guidance of Prof. Satya Prakash, Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, IIT Roorkee
Analyzed the hardenability of steel using Jominy end quench test and also learned to measure grain growth on Al-Cu system under the guidance of Prof. Satya Prakash, Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, IIT Roorkee




FIELD EXPERIENCE

DCM Shriram Industry

Kota, Rajasthan,

India

Duration: 1 Month

Studied the formation of Calcium Carbide (CaC2).

Also Studied all the byproducts formed in the process and how are they utilized industrially.



SOFTWARE SKILL SET



Working Languages – Python, Django, C, C++,Mysql, Psql, CMS

Operating System - Windows, LINUX, Macintosh.

Applications - WORD, EXCEL, PowerPoint, Photoshop.



RELEVANT COURSES UNDERTAKEN



Metallurgical Thermodynamics and Kinetics
Structural Metallurgy (Theory and Laboratory)
Metallography Lab (Laboratory)
Transport Phenomena
Phase Transformation and Heat Treatment
Mechanical Behavior of Materials
Electrical and Electronic Materials
Mechanical Engineering Drawing (Theory and Practical)
Mathematical Methods (Differential equation, complex integration, Laplace Transforms)
Mathematics-1 (Matrices and vector calculus)
Modern Physics (Electrodynamics, Modern Physics, Quantum Mechanics, Laser Physics, Solid
State Physics) (Theory and Laboratory)
An Introduction to Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Programming with C++
Chemistry (Thermodynamics, Physical, Organic and Inorganic) (Theory and Laboratory)
Electrical Science (Theory and Laboratory)


ACHIEVEMENTS



Secured 4573th rank in JEE-Advanced 2013 (which is one of the world’s most difficult Engineering Entrance exam) among top 1,50,000 candidates out of a total of around 13,50,000 candidates.
Was among the top 0.6% in JEE-Mains 2013 among 13,50,000 candidates.
Volunteer in the Thomso - 2013 which is the annual cultural fest of IIT Roorkee.
I was a member of National Sports Organization for Lawn Tennis since 2013 for one year.
Volunteer in Sankalp which is organized by the National Service Scheme, IIT Roorkee.


EXTRA – CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES

Hub-coordinator at Information Management Group, IIT Roorkee which is a student's group responsible for development and maintenance of internet and intranet applications in the institute, including the main website of IIT Roorkee.
Part of the Lawn Tennis Team of IIT Roorkee for 1 year.


