The original Resnick Halliday is a masterpiece in physics education. It is used as a brand name to boost up the sale of this book. It is claimed that the original Resnick Halliday book is adapted for IITJEE. In reality, it is a low grade book by author of a Kota based coaching class with a few diagrams and bits and pieces copied from the original book. 
The original Resnick Halliday is matured over several years and has no conceptual error, no typographical error. This book has plenty of typographical error and a few conceptual errors. So, it is not recommended for students. Only teachers capable of locating the errors should use it. I suggest the authors to be fair to the readers by publishing an errata on the net. 
You can get solutions of all questions and exercises in original Resnick Halliday. They are available in Instructors resource whose copy is available on internet. This adapted version has only questions and answers. But no solutions. Quality of questions and exercises in original book is much better than the adapted one. 
Original Resnick Halliday has index for reference. The adapted one does not have. 
The most serious blunder is about the approach of book. The original book targets teaching concepts and concepts used as tools for solving problems. The adapted book rather targets making the reader familiar with patterns on problems appearing in competitive exams. the reader will learn the pattern based methods of problem solving. Concepts may be learnt as a secondary outcome. This is typical approach of many a successful teachers in the commercial field of JEE coaching. There are many guide books written by them. This is just one more book of the same class. But publisher and author has smartly borrowed (for some fee?) the brandname of famous Resnick Halliday to attract customers. 
They intended to combine goodness of Resnick Halliday with focus on JEE. What has come out from the experiment is a caricature of Resnick Halliday . If the publisher wants to be honest, the book should be published without any reference to Resnick Halliday .